Rationale for each Ranking Method
6/29/18

Our overall goal is to figure out which tactics each attacker is employing most probably by comparing the tactic vectors to the attack vectors to see how similar they are. For each attack vector, the tactics are ranked on the basis of three different values for their likelihood - Jaccard Similarity Index, weighted zeros, and percent of techniques used. None of these methods includes missing values (?) in their calculations. 

Tactic vectors were constructed by rewriting mitre’s Attack Matrix into csv format. Each tactic is a row in the csv file “tactics.csv”, and each technique is a column. If the technique is classified under the specific tactic, this presence is represented with a 1, and otherwise the cell is filled with a 0. Attack vectors are simulated such that if the technique was used and “detected”, the cell is filled with a 1, and if the technique was not used, the cell is filled with a 0. In cases where the technique in an attack vector is not detectable, the cell is filled with a ?.

1. Jaccard Similarity Index - This method uses the ratio of intersection and union for an attack and a tactic, such that JS(A,B) = ((A intersects B)/(A union B)) * 100. It compares the two vectors based on their similarity, where the intersection includes only the case of two ones and the union also includes cases where there is a single one and a single zero for a technique. By operationalizing the intersection as only being the case of two ones for a technique, we are able to see which tactics an attack most closely corresponds to in terms of which techniques are actually employed.

2. Weighted Zeros - While the Jaccard method above does not include the case of double zeros in the ranking, here they are taken into account for both the intersection and the union at a lower weight than any other case. Each instance of double zeros is weighted at 10% of other cases. Including the zeros in the equation gives this ranking method more precision in assessing the similarity between a tactic and attack - but in doing so, it also gives less weight to the true intersection of double ones for a technique.

3. Percent of Techniques Used - This method compares attacks to tactics based on the ratio of intersection of ones to the total number of techniques in a tactic. The difference in denominator distinguishes this ranking method from Jaccard and places more emphasis on which techniques are actually employed in an attack rather than also considering what techniques are NOT employed, which helps in quantifying which tactics are posing the greatest threat.

Based on a combination of intuition and analysis of simulated attack vectors, Jaccard Similarity Index appears to rank tactics most logically. The weighted zeros ranking system gives too much weight to similarity of vectors from the absence of techniques versus their presence, which is the critical component being considered. Percent of techniques used tends to bias tactics that are composed of less techniques. Jaccard Similarity Index is best able to illustrate which tactics are most similar to the simulated attack vector based on the techniques that are actually being used.